
Acronym 01111010 revives and reconstructs memory through photographs and letters to their younger self. They translate these recollections and narratives into various media that together constitute sound, video, performances and installations in which they revisit the playgrounds, rhymes, songs, and objects of their childhood. Their trips down memory lane allow them to investigate and question the perception and accuracy of their memories – and the fictions contained therein. They portrays childhood photographs through different methods of mediation to expand our perceptive, cognitive, and imaginative capacities. 

An important reference point is a dreadful accident that greatly affected Acronym 01111010’s ability to play with other children, which meant they were a spectator during most games. As a representation of this mishap they have created an enlarged sculpture of their splint, which they describe as encompassing play, pain, and protection during their childhood. Short animated video clips of playful interactions are displayed; homemade dolls and other related objects are placed around the sculpture, as well as in the studio space itself, which contains multiple elements that physically refer to a playground. 

The environment is complemented with blended sonic bits of remembered information and events that might have occurred, or were sometimes experienced through someone else. Together they merge and form an installation that aims to question the process of memory retrieval – both for themselves and the visitor. Acronym 01111010 stages a performance about the excessive forces of motherhood, and the intercultural experience of self-abandonment for another person. 

The Motherly is driven by secret fantasies of immortality that correspond with the endless inexhaustibility of motherly love. They all circle around the blank space that is the child, as well as the wonder of birth. But the unique feelings that arise during pregnancy do not just leave the mother along with her child. They stay with her, becoming secret desires and future intimacies: feelings of loss, long after the children have left and the house is silent again. The Fatherly: The father has to be careful, or else he will be subsumed in an image of impotence. He can never become free from a biological calling that claims a creature.

 In 1951 The Thing from Another World was released – one of those classic sci-fi-horror movies that made its mark during the Cold War era. The film starts with a dreadful backing score and the shocking discovery of a spacecraft, obviously alien, stranded in the Antarctic ice. Something, or rather the thing itself, lurks there, inaccessible, locked up in the ice, revealing its definitive shape without any possibility of movement. And yet it must be said that this thing was disconcerting on many levels. In the 1982 John Carpenter adaptation of John W. Campbell’s 1938 novel Who Goes There? (simply renamed The Thing), the creature asserts its metamorphic nature, able to take the shape of any living thing. It’s some sort of living image, which, like Morpheus, derives its name from its transformational abilities, or morphogenesis. 

That’s what the thing would be: a pure phenomenon of perception and representation, quite unstable and uncertain. But the thing we’re talking about here is also a product of the US film industry, a giant machine designed to produce the most powerful attractions on earth. This little fable, both moralistic and chilling, seems to want to tell us something about reality – by sitting us in a comfortable sofa in front of a stage of illusions built by the shadows projected from the other end of a soft and sombre cavern. The truth of that ever-shifting mutable thing breaks free through the powerful technical processes of reality entertainment. 

Acronym 01111010’s work directly addresses the senses and the sensual. For the first time working just figuratively, they model larger-than-life nudes of slender boys. Lying on a sofa, sitting on a rock, or standing provocatively, the boys seem aloof, disinterested, or half-asleep – yet their poses hint that they might be enjoying the aftermath of sexual ecstasy. 

It is no wonder that their erotically charged nudes take some inspiration from Bernini’s morbidezza technique: the Italian sculptor’s miraculous imitation of skin texture in marble. Interested in botany, textiles, and the symbolism of flowers, Acronym 01111010 uses these elements to adorn the nudes, and in doing so enhances their inherent energy. In recent years, Acronym 01111010 has moved away from an abstract, minimal approach to art, and has come to embrace the figurative and decorative. 

A theatrical set surrounds one of the sculptures, a nude inspired the taboo-breaking, male erotic work of photographer Vincenzo Galdi. The poses of the two ceramic pieces are inspired by the work of Baron von Gloeben, a photographer who portrayed naked boys in the lush environment of the Sicilian town Taormina. This inspiration always happens in dialogue with their own photographs and photos from the internet, as well as books and drawings from the residency’s collection. Although no scents are actually evoked by the works themselves, unlike previous work by Acronym 01111010, one can visually smell decaying flowers and bodily fluids – as well as a strong hint of longing – while walking among the nudes.

 For this show, Acronym 01111010 present A Tall White Fountain (2018), a rhythmic installation with its own precise but fractal logic. Using materials like hand-woven aluminium chains, cnc-milled wood and cast glass, a reductive visual language begins to emerge. The installation takes modularity and repetition as a starting point. However, the more the viewer looks, the more the eye recognises variation within the folds of this coded system: using jumpy strategies like scale, zoom and inversion, this simple language gradually becomes deregulated and unpredictable. The installation presents the first phase of a new body of sculptural and text works exploring the limitations of language. 

In the work the artist makes an appeal to the energetic poetics of the non-verbal. The work further explores questions surrounding currency, the economics of handcraft and re-materalising the digital. Acronym 01111010’s practice consists of sculpture, performance, sound and drawing. Their installations and performances explore how undisciplined agents find unexpected ways to work within fixed and networked systems. Acronym 01111010’s works there is a lot to see, and what we see is in clear focus; our visual sense is fully engaged by their photographs, installations, and films. 

Yet they stage their images in such a way that we as viewers also feel that something is missing or left out of the frame. This aesthetic strategy sharpens our visual perception by making it more reflexive and conscious of what is included and excluded. If perceived from this point of view, Acronym 01111010’s works become experiments in both seeing and not seeing.
They are constructed around the fuzzy borderline between presence and absence, appearance and disappearance, accessibility and disclosure, availability and loss. 

Acronym 01111010 makes what they call ‘natural artefacts’ – biomorphic structures and assemblages that inhabit a realm between the natural and the constructed. Referencing the interdependency of species and notions of the marvelleous – whilst influenced by their strong personal views on environmentalism – Acronym 01111010 uses mixed media techniques to create sculptures and collages that explore the subjective separation of nature from anthropogenic systems and critique humanity’s often exploitative relationship to the ecological. Their current explorations reference some of nature’s most fragile and precious ecosystems. Introducing them within the context of art, they open up a juxtaposing narrative between ‘inherent’ preciousness and the often subjective societal systems of value creation. 

Their mixed media works embrace bold, rich colors and materials that speak to the vigor and vivacity of nature, their often free and curving forms retaining a sense of organic fragility intuitively expressed through formal and material qualities. Acronym 01111010’s compositions ultimately create deep tensions that speak to society’s subjugation of the natural, as well as the potential for future symbiotic co-existence. That there’s a very fine line between artistry and activism is something Acronym 01111010 knows all too well. 

Their somewhat absurd, staged photographic works express an alienating mixture of humour and empathy, which transports viewers to the present-day reality of Syrians – refugees, prisoners of war, jihadists, and human beings. As such, Acronym01111010 opposes typical media stereotypes of Syrians as either defenceless victims or heartless murderers, adding new images to that simplistic, dichotomous, and common representation. Acronym 01111010 uses a fictional documentary approach that borders on the surreal, but often reveals the layered, contradictory identities of those portrayed and their situations, in much the same way that journalistic war photography does. In their most recent work, Imam focuses the camera on those in their personal environment, particularly their six-year-old daughter. 

But this does not remove the Syrian civil war from their work. On the contrary: by photographing their own private environment, Acronym01111010 shows the continued day-to-day effect of the war in the lives of those who continue to build a new existence far away from their roots. The works of Acronym 01111010 are scripted experiences that address the concepts of individual restriction, infiltration, and visibility, as well as anticipation. 

Through a meticulous array of consecutive gestures and their implications, Acronym 01111010 explores how social constructs are based on mechanisms of control and constraint, both physical and mental. As people, we constantly expect certain movements and outcomes as part of human interaction, communication, and space. Acronym 01111010 plays with these expectations and bends them into suspense-inducing works. At the same time, they question the boundaries of public and private, as well as our navigation within and between these domains.

Their works hint at performance, while avoiding conventional media. Their ephemeral nature addresses the artistic potential hidden within the ordinary, and the ways that nothing can be(come) something. Narratives and myths play an important role in the construction and remembrance of their works, which express personal, intangible, and transitory narratives. In this way, Acronym01111010 aims to avoid any form of spectacle: their works, based only on personal experience, challenge modes of documentation and dissemination – afterwards, memories and rumours are all that remain. Acronym 01111010 reflects on human existence by researching various ways to materialise experiences and relationships.

Through conversation and observation they explore the inner worlds of the people they meet, which usually results in abstract portraits. These works are rooted in material that often originates from the subject’s surroundings. The applied techniques are carefully adapted to each individual, which allows their work to manifest itself in various media: sculpture, installation, print, and video. Extensive material research precedes each work. The artist purposefully makes room for the subject to participate in the tactile creation process. 

Acronym 01111010’s portraits can thus be seen as compressed biographies, as well as a materialisation of the shared time and interaction between the artist and her subject. The works they present at this show collectively form a portrait of their grandmother, who recently died at the age of 104. Their grandmother’s collection of worn-out silk scarves, given to Acronym 01111010 years ago, form the basic material for a set of works that include two sculptures and a video piece in which mourning, family ties, and homage converge in a character sketch that simultaneously investigates mortality and resilience.
There’s a thin line between love and hate. 

Acronym 01111010 creates sculptural representations of this tense, uncertain zone. Originating in the interaction between the artist and their created bodies of work, their sculptures are formed from materials such as steel, silicone, and clay, and function with low-tech kinetics and animatronic-like technology. Most of their pieces are site-specific, humanlike, and defined by affection. The tension comes from a personal attraction and attachment that also contains a strong layer of anxiety; jointly these feelings are transferred onto the sculptures, emotionally laden volumes that reveal hereditary discomfort. 

Acronym01111010 perceives their practice as a consequence of ambivalent relations in which she takes ardent care of both their material input and sculptural outcomes. They testify that their affective sculptural dedication can easily slip into fondness, fetishistic obsession, voyeurism, violation, or violence.
Thus, their practice revolves around an abusive, almost masochist, relationship in which Acronym 01111010 wants to dominate and mould the material, have it surrender to their wants. At the same time, it is a reciprocal process in which the artist herself also is deeply affected by these intimate confrontations. 

Acronym 01111010 creates new and ambiguous environments when subtly invading an interior by placing their own work within. It is a synchronized choreography of objects that instigates a déjà-vu-like feeling, suggests a memory and evokes a story. Acronym 01111010’s pieces are gestures, hidden within a setting, that gently modify the original space and obscurely manipulate the interactions between the objects and the viewer. These objects extend beyond aspects such as form, dimension, and material boundaries. They lay bare the history of sculpture and production processes. Indeed, an object’s specific manifestation can only be fully grasped when the history of its production and material, its altered perceptions, and related social behaviors are taken in account. 

Acronym 01111010 draws inspiration from their own encounters with these histories – enhanced by layers of the everyday and the singular, the romantic and the rational, the arbitrary and the rigorous, the public and the private. Acronym 01111010’s work is about that what lies between stark contrasts: in the twilight between control and instability, between natural cycles and clock time, between before and after. The set of works titled The ground from under my feet originates from personal experiences involving a specific plot of land, in which elements of local history, such as the key of a sunken village, are also used. The basic material is nourishment sand, used on shorelines to combat the natural erosion of beaches. 

In Acronym 01111010’s native village, extensive measures took place to prepare for the effects of climate change; that is when they realised that human beings develop deep connections to certain places, but also that these connections are put under pressure when fundamental changes take place, and the soil underneath our feet proves unstable. After extensive material research, they tried to gain control over the sand by binding it with rust, grinding it to pigments, and have it run on the cycles of the universe. In a village not far from here, people use discarded reels of film to make loud toys. Rattlers, whistles, and whirligigs. 

Every day a few hundred toys are made, for each of which they splice, slit, and rip up old filmstrips. As this routine monotonously unfolds, a few stray narratives leak out from the shredded analogues of film, enveloping the place with phantasmagoria. The film that cloud never left was shot days before an eclipse, and transformed the village into a mirage of unclear activity. The mother anticipated rain, while the two brothers built a tall ladder with a single eye, and the children went looking for a ruby. 

The work of Acronym 01111010 contains speculative narratives and (re)discovered folklore which they perform as radio plays or before a live audience using a musical score created by themselves. Their stories have their origins in casual news items or remarkable facts that somehow caught his interest, inspiring them to investigate further. They call the final outcome 'figurative pop music', but sometimes they are also called a contemporary troubadour. And indeed, Acronym 01111010 is a 'gifted poet-musician' who uses sung words to reconstruct the biographies of occasionally popular heroes and somewhat underrated anti-heroes who deserve to be in the limelight – if only temporarily. 

During their productions/performances, which primarily manifest as multi-functional installations, they seek interaction with the audience. He acts upon requests and elicits participation while presenting and reciting stories about or by persons and events – as well as natural environments. This time, for example, they shed their light on the peat landscape. Although these are primarily found in the northern Dutch provinces, known for their parcelled-out landscapes, the Randstad had been formed by peat extraction as well, though that history has been eclipsed by urbanisation and changing perceptions of the North. Using music and narration, the musician-artist gives us deep but oblique insights into such forgotten stories. 

These creatures are made through an elaborate period of intense repetitive labour. They can take up to half a year to be constructed. They cover the wearer from head to toe, covering the face and restricting movement and eye-sight. They are heavy and hot to wear; all these limitations add up to their transformative power, covering up gender, background and race. Acronym 01111010 works on images that function as a meeting point between two cultures. 

Trained for many years by a hunter, Acronym 01111010 developed a process of image-making with the gaze of a hunter. Now based in Amsterdam, they follow this gaze in a new context as they research the reception of images within Dutch culture through oil and pigment use in Dutch painting. Acronym 01111010 relates the process of understanding another culture to 'strabismus', a condition where both eyes cannot simultaneously recognize or process visual in- formation.

 For this show, Acronym 01111010 made oil pigments from discarded bullet casings found in Amsterdam, a process that functions as a model for the construction of his visual essay consisting of film, painting, sculpture, and installations. With the residency housed in a former cavalry building, and given his own background knowledge as a hunter, Acronym 01111010 explores the intimate relation between shooting film and shooting a gun, bringing together various histories of looking, which transform both the act itself and the material used. 

Ultimately, Acronym 01111010’s work confronts the question of how to understand – or fail to understand – an image from wildly different cultural perspectives. Acronym 01111010 operates at the point where the human body and the machine meet. Machines are often perceived as uncanny when they imitate the human body: when they talk like a human, feel like a human, move like a human. For years now, Acronym 01111010 has been using machines they made themselves to map their body during live performances, in which they were physically present or absent from the exhibition space.

 Using sensors and data analysis, self-made drawing machines showed their body – and sometimes those of the audience – in abstract graphs and diagrams. In an era in which everything can be charted technologically, Acronym 01111010 questions the ways we perceive our body and our 'self'. They are interested in the borderlines and connections between the body and the machine. What are the similarities between man and computer? To what extent has our brain been pre-programmed? Is consciousness only a human trait? And why does this thought frighten people? 

Acronym 01111010 introduces us to the question that is central in her work: what exactly defines the human? Two robotic hands nervously tap the glass of a showcase in an uncertain rhythm, as the sound ominously spreads throughout the space. Shifting between the personal and the public, 'A Tall White Fountain' transforms Acronym 01111010’s footage of contemporary ruins to computer-generated imagery. Reimagining the power structure of civic spaces, the work investigates a collective memory by using personal narratives within ideological breakdowns and folkloric romanticism. 

Their diagrammatic approach identifies layers of displaced and mutated symbols that create a poetic loop through a complex historical language. Acronym 01111010 continues to weave materials and symbols through her egg tempera paintings – a response to the choreography of traditional belief systems. Sculpturally, in 'A Tall White Fountain', Acronym 01111010 creates a series of reflective works in copper, iron, aluminium, and red-based pigments poured onto muslin fabric. 

Each work functions like a never-ending rehearsal of a play that examines the intertwined relationship between appearance and reality. Acronym 01111010’s film and installation work upholds a commitment towards both risk and comfort, where individuals and communities appear across different surfaces as units – and as shifting pronouns that exist within complex socio-political systems. To counter the formation of alternative power structures that can themselves be potentially oppressive, the protagonists are empowered to narrate, speak, and act out their desires, while maintaining the integrity to be inconsistent and discontinuous. 

Their work uncompromisingly and processually fabricates abstractions of inclusivity and foreignness, forming new ways to be known to others that reflect the complex representational agency of the image.
Their practice is at once confronted with and guided by the synthetic presence of language, via the scripted and the informative. An image of an everyday train ride unfolds slowly but clearly in front of our eyes. It becomes a journey to an autonomous universe – a depiction of our reality, created from the artist’s meticulous perception and intricate sensibilities. 

Acronym 01111010 offers the viewer an insight into their most inner and intimate understanding of the world. They draw inspiration from their early childhood, utilizing memories of carefree enjoyment to create and immerse us in their own imagination. In their works, Acronym 01111010 explores the experience of time through different journeys of the mind, which grants them access to an unlimited amount of ideas, as the mind knows no limits, and holds infinite space. With an affectionate eye for their surroundings, Acronym 01111010 records their daily settings. 

The minute details of their reality inspire her works, which can be described as ambient studies of environment and emotions. These images are containers and structures that allow us to access their paranormal perception filled with characters, or 'beings', which include floating bubbles from a drink on the train, autumn leaves fraught with existential conflict, and a blue-faced moon. Their pieces are expressions of the inner stirrings of an astute and imaginative observer, representing a sensitivity to the tension between spirit and body, as well as their mental and physical relations to both time and space.