
Immy Mali revives and reconstructs memory through photographs and letters to her younger self. She translates these recollections and narratives into various media that together constitute sound, video, performances and installations in which she revisits the playgrounds, rhymes, songs, and objects of her childhood. Her trips down memory lane allow her to investigate and question the perception and accuracy of her memories – and the fictions contained therein. She portrays childhood photographs through different methods of mediation to expand our perceptive, cognitive, and imaginative capacities.
 
An important reference point is a dreadful accident that greatly affected Mali’s ability to play with other children, which meant she was a spectator during most games. As a representation of this mishap she has created an enlarged sculpture of her splint, which she describes as encompassing play, pain, and protection during her childhood. Short animated video clips of playful interactions are displayed; homemade dolls and other related objects are placed around the sculpture, as well as in the studio space itself, which contains multiple elements that physically refer to a playground. The environment is complemented with blended sonic bits of remembered information and events that might have occurred, or were sometimes experienced through someone else. Together they merge and form an installation that aims to question the process of memory retrieval – both for herself and the visitor.
 
Sujin Bae and Jonathan Lemke stage a performance about the excessive forces of motherhood, and the intercultural experience of self-abandonment for another person.
 
The Motherly is driven by secret fantasies of immortality that correspond with the endless inexhaustibility of motherly love. They all circle around the blank space that is the child, as well as the wonder of birth.
 
But the unique feelings that arise during pregnancy do not just leave the mother along with her child. They stay with her, becoming secret desires and future intimacies: feelings of loss, long after the children have left and the house is silent again.

The Fatherly: The father has to be careful, or else he will be subsumed in an image of impotence. He can never become free from a biological calling that claims a creature.
 
– There we are.
– Holy cat! What a weird-Iooking thing.
– Let me get a picture before you track up the whole place.
– This Geiger counter is going crazy.
– Something’s melted that surface crust.
– It’s frozen over again into transparent ice.
– The bottle shape apparently was caused by the craft first making contact...
– ...and then it sank beneath the surface.
– What could melt that much ice?
– Let’s go down and see, Barnes.
 
In 1951 The Thing from Another World was released – one of those classic sci-fi-horror movies that made its mark during the Cold War era. The film starts with a dreadful backing score and the shocking discovery of a spacecraft, obviously alien, stranded in the Antarctic ice. Something, or rather the thing itself, lurks there, inaccessible, locked up in the ice, revealing its definitive shape without any possibility of movement. And yet it must be said that this thing was disconcerting on many levels. In the 1982 John Carpenter adaptation of John W. Campbell’s 1938 novel Who Goes There? (simply renamed The Thing), the creature asserts its metamorphic nature, able to take the shape of any living thing. It’s some sort of living image, which, like Morpheus, derives its name from its transformational abilities, or morphogenesis.
 
That’s what the thing would be: a pure phenomenon of perception and representation, quite unstable and uncertain.
 
But the thing we’re talking about here is also a product of the US film industry, a giant machine designed to produce the most powerful attractions on earth. This little fable, both moralistic and chilling, seems to want to tell us something about reality – by sitting us in a comfortable sofa in front of a stage of illusions built by the shadows projected from the other end of a soft and sombre cavern. The truth of that ever-shifting mutable thing breaks free through the powerful technical processes of reality entertainment.

Morgan Courtois’s work directly addresses the senses and the sensual. For the first time working just figuratively, he models larger-than-life nudes of slender boys. Lying on a sofa, sitting on a rock, or standing provocatively, the boys seem aloof, disinterested, or half-asleep – yet their poses hint that they might be enjoying the aftermath of sexual ecstasy. It is no wonder that Courtois’s erotically charged nudes take some inspiration from Bernini’s morbidezza technique: the Italian sculptor’s miraculous imitation of skin texture in marble. Interested in botany, textiles, and the symbolism of flowers, Courtois uses these elements to adorn the nudes, and in doing so enhances their inherent energy. In recent years, Courtois has moved away from an abstract, minimal approach to art, and has come to embrace the figurative and decorative. A theatrical set surrounds one of the sculptures, a nude inspired the taboo-breaking, male erotic work of photographer Vincenzo Galdi. The poses of the two ceramic pieces are inspired by the work of Baron von Gloeben, a photographer who portrayed naked boys in the lush environment of the Sicilian town Taormina. This inspira- tion always happens in dialogue with Courtois’s own photographs and photos from the internet, as well as books and drawings from the Rijksakademie collection. Although no scents are actually evoked by the works themselves, unlike previous work by Courtois, one can visually smell decaying flowers and bodily fluids – as well as a strong hint of longing – while walking among the nudes.

 For the RijksOPEN 2018, Jude Crilly presents Some saints move to more financial cities (2018), a rhythmic installation with its own precise but fractal logic. Using materials like hand-woven aluminium chains, cnc-milled wood and cast glass, a reductive visual language begins to emerge.
 
The installation takes modularity and repetition as a starting point. However, the more the viewer looks, the more the eye recognises variation within the folds of this coded system: using jumpy strategies like scale, zoom and inversion, this simple language gradually becomes deregulated and unpredictable.

The installation presents the first phase of a new body of sculptural and text works exploring the limitations of language. In the work the artist makes an appeal to the energetic poetics of the non-verbal. The work further explores questions surrounding currency, the economics of handcraft and re-materalising the digital.

Jude Crilly’s practice consists of sculpture, performance, sound and drawing. Her installations and performances explore how undisciplined agents find unexpected ways to work within fixed and networked systems.
 
In Aslan Gaisumov’s works there is a lot to see, and what we see is in clear focus; our visual sense is fully engaged by his photographs, installations, and films. Yet he stages his images in such a way that we as viewers also feel that something is missing or left out of the frame. This aesthetic strategy sharpens our visual perception by making it more reflexive and conscious of what is included and excluded. If perceived from this point of view, Gaisumov’s works become experiments in both seeing and not seeing.
They are constructed around the fuzzy borderline between presence and absence, appearance and disappearance, accessibility and disclosure, availability and loss.


Elleke Hageman makes what she calls ‘natural artefacts’ – biomorphic structures and assemblages that inhabit a realm between the natural and the constructed. Referencing the interdependency of species and notions of the marvelleous – whilst influenced by her strong personal views on environmentalism – Hageman uses mixed media techniques to create sculptures and collages that explore the subjective separation of nature from anthropogenic systems and critique humanity’s often exploitative relationship to the ecological.
 
Her current explorations reference some of nature’s most fragile and precious ecosystems. Introducing them within the context of art, she opens up a juxtaposing narrative between ‘inherent’ preciousness and the often subjective societal systems of value creation. Her mixed media works embrace bold, rich colors and materials that speak to the vigor and vivacity of nature, their often free and curving forms retaining a sense of organic fragility intuitively expressed through formal and material qualities. Hageman’s compositions ultimately create deep tensions that speak to society’s subjugation of the natural, as well as the potential for future symbiotic co-existence.

That there’s a very fine line between artistry and activism is something Omar Imam knows all too well. His somewhat absurd, staged photographic works express an alienating mixture of humour and empathy, which transports viewers to the present-day reality of Syrians – refugees, prisoners of war, jihadists, and human beings. As such, Imam opposes typical media stereotypes of Syrians as either defenceless victims or heartless murderers, adding new images to that simplistic, dichotomous, and common representation.
Imam uses a fictional documentary approach that borders on the surreal, but often reveals the layered, contradictory identities of those portrayed and their situations, in much the same way that journalistic war photography does. In his most recent work, Imam focuses the camera on those in his personal environment, particularly his six-year-old daughter. But this does not remove the Syrian civil war from his work. On the contrary: by photographing his own private environment, Imam shows the continued day-to-day effect of the war in the lives of those who continue to build a new existence far away from their roots.

The works of Florence Jung are scripted experiences that address the concepts of individual restriction, infiltration, and visibility, as well as anticipation. Through a meticulous array of consecutive gestures and their implications, Jung explores how social constructs are based on mechanisms of control and constraint, both physical and mental. As people, we constantly expect certain movements and outcomes as part of human interaction, communication, and space.

Jung plays with these expectations and bends them into suspense-inducing works. At the same time, she questions the boundaries of public and private, as well as our navigation within and between these domains. Her works hint at performance, while avoiding conventional media. Their ephemeral nature addresses the artistic potential hidden within the ordinary, and the ways that nothing can be(come) something. Narratives and myths play an important role in the construction and remembrance of her works, which express personal, intangible, and transitory narratives. In this way, Jung aims to avoid any form of spectacle: her works, based only on personal experience, challenge modes of documentation and dissemination – afterwards, memories and rumours are all that remain.


Maria Kley reflects on human existence by researching various ways to materialise experiences and relationships. Through conversation and observation she explores the inner worlds of the people she meets, which usually results in abstract portraits. These works are rooted in material that often originates from the subject’s surroundings. The applied techniques are carefully adapted to each individual, which allows her work to manifest itself in various media: sculpture, installation, print, and video. Extensive material research precedes each work.
 
The artist purposefully makes room for the subject to participate in the tactile creation process. Kley’s portraits can thus be seen as compressed biographies, as well as a materialisation of the shared time and interaction between the artist and her subject. The works she presents at RijksakademieOPEN 2018 collectively form a portrait of her grandmother Klara Barbara, who recently died at the age of 104. Her grandmother’s collection of worn-out silk scarves, given to Kley years ago, form the basic material for a set of works that include two sculptures and a video piece in which mourning, family ties, and homage converge in a character sketch that simultaneously investigates mortality and resilience.

There’s a thin line between love and hate. Mire Lee creates sculptural representations of this tense, uncertain zone. Originating in the interaction between the artist and her created bodies of work, Lee’s sculptures are formed from materials such as steel, silicone, and clay, and function with low-tech kinetics and animatronic-like technology. Most of her pieces are site-specific, humanlike, and defined by affection. The tension comes from a personal attraction and attachment that also contains a strong layer of anxiety; jointly these feelings are transferred onto the sculptures, emotionally laden volumes that reveal hereditary discomfort. Lee perceives her practice as a consequence of ambivalent relations in which she takes ardent care of both her material input and sculptural outcomes. She testifies that her affective sculptural dedication can easily slip into fondness, fetishistic obsession, voyeurism, violation, or violence.
Thus, her practice revolves around an abusive, almost masochist, relationship in which Lee wants to dominate and mould the material, have it surrender to her wants. At the same time, it is a reciprocal process in which the artist herself also is deeply affected by these intimate confrontations.


Christopher Mahon creates new and ambiguous environments when subtly invading an interior by placing his own work within. It is a synchronized choreography of objects that instigates a déjà-vu-like feeling, suggests a memory and evokes a story. Mahon’s pieces are gestures, hidden within a setting, that gently modify the original space and obscurely manipulate the interactions between the objects and the viewer.
 
These objects extend beyond aspects such as form, dimension, and material boundaries. They lay bare the history of sculpture and production processes. Indeed, an object’s specific manifestation can only be fully grasped when the history of its production and material, its altered perceptions, and related social behaviors are taken in account. Mahon draws inspiration from his own encounters with these histories – enhanced by layers of the everyday and the singular, the romantic and the rational, the arbitrary and the rigorous, the public and the private.


Astrid Nobel’s work is about that what lies between stark contrasts: in the twilight between control and instability, between natural cycles and clock time, between before and after. The set of works titled The ground from under my feet originates from personal experiences involving a specific plot of land, in which elements of local history, such as the key of a sunken village, are also used. The basic material is nourishment sand, used on shorelines to combat the natural erosion of beaches. In Nobel’s native village in the Wadden archipelago, extensive measures took place to prepare for the effects of climate change; that is when she realised that human beings develop deep connections to certain places, but also that these connections are put under pressure when fundamental changes take place, and the soil underneath our feet proves unstable. After extensive material research, she tried to gain control over the sand by binding it with rust, grinding it to pigments, and have it run on the cycles of the universe.


In a village not far from here, people use discarded reels of film to make loud toys. Rattlers, whistles, and whirligigs. Every day a few hundred toys are made, for each of which they splice, slit, and rip up old filmstrips. As this routine monotonously unfolds, a few stray narratives leak out from the shredded analogues of film, enveloping the place with phantasmagoria.
 
The film that cloud never left was shot days before an eclipse, and transformed the village into a mirage of unclear activity. The mother anticipated rain, while the two brothers built a tall ladder with a single eye, and the children went looking for a ruby.
 
The work of Bert Scholten contains speculative narratives and (re)discovered folklore which he performs as radio plays or before a live audience using a musical score created by himself. His stories have their origins in casual news items or remarkable facts that somehow caught his interest, inspiring him to investigate further. He calls the final outcome 'figurative pop music', but sometimes he is also called a contemporary troubadour. And indeed, Scholten is a 'gifted poet-musician' who uses sung words to reconstruct the biographies of occasionally popular heroes and somewhat underrated anti-heroes who deserve to be in the limelight – if only temporarily.
 
During his productions/performances, which primarily manifest as multi-functional installations, he seeks interaction with the audience. He acts upon requests and elicits participation while presenting and reciting stories about or by persons and events – as well as natural environments. This time, for example, he sheds his light on the peat landscape. Although these are primarily found in the northern Dutch provinces, known for their parcelled-out landscapes, the Randstad had been formed by peat extraction as well, though that history has been eclipsed by urbanisation and changing perceptions of the North. Using music and narration, the musician-artist gives us deep but oblique insights into such forgotten stories.

I research how far we can contort and skew the ‘natural’ human body in order to form a new form of ‘ethics’. I'm an artist focusing on performance and sculpture. I create sculptural costumes on the of border of the uncanny and the grotesque.

My practice indicates a graver concern with society’s anxieties, instead avowing to remove the privileged thinking of the human as the Master of the Universe. Utilising my DIY-prosthetics, my work is a call-to-arms to break away from the Western obsession with the sanctity of the human form. My work “inscribes a certain teleology of liberation, facilitated and authorized by the artist as an agent of social change and a source of moral anxiety.”

My plea is to co-exist with technology, to ally with it and fashion new ‘assemblages’, connections which constitute what the body might be, following the philosophy of Gilles Deleuze, the body without organs.
I believe there's a strong connection with the manual labor and the experience of becoming these meta bodies, to produce something other worldly, tangible and frictional experience by hand.

These creatures are made through an elaborate period of intens repetitive labour. They can take up to half a year to be constructed. They cover the wearer from head to toe, covering the face and restricting movement and eye-sight. They are heavy and hot to wear; all these limitations add up to their transformative power, covering up gender, background and race.

By anthropomorphising these accessible materials is a political act of resistance; to produce in a timemconsuming and labor-intensive way, I show the body's abilities to take ownership, linking up to folkloric and carnivalesque traditions of temporary autonomous spaces.

By putting these costumes at the base of my performances, they become the means to link the notion of motionless sculpture to the liveliness of the performers. They are both an act of revelation and concealment, as it shapes action while simultaneously disguising the body's form and texture. After creating a new body language for these non-human bodies, a narrative is developed through play and improvisation. The final layer for the performance is the music that functions as sonic set.

Omar Vega Macotela works on images that function as a meeting point between two cultures. Trained for many years by a hunter in rural Mexico, Macotela developed a process of image-making with the gaze of a hunter.
Now based in Amsterdam, he follows this gaze in a new context as he researches the reception of images within Dutch culture through oil and pigment use in Dutch painting. Macotela relates the process of understanding another culture to 'strabismus', a condition where both eyes cannot simultaneously recognize or process visual in- formation. For this show, Macotela made oil pigments from discarded bullet casings found in Amsterdam, a process that functions as a model for the construction of his visual essay consisting of film, painting, sculpture, and installations. With the Rijksakademie housed in a former cavalry building, and given his own background knowledge as a hunter, Macotela explores the intimate relation between shooting film and shooting a gun, bringing together various histories of looking, which transform both the act itself and the material used. Ultimately, Macotela’s work confronts the question of how to understand – or fail to understand – an image from wildly different cultural perspectives.

Marit Westerhuis operates at the point where the human body and the machine meet. Machines are often perceived as uncanny when they imitate the human body: when they talk like a human, feel like a human, move like a human. For years now, Westerhuis has been using machines she made herself to map her body during live performances, in which she was physically present or absent from the exhibition space. Using sensors and data analysis, self-made drawing machines showed her body – and sometimes those of the audience – in abstract graphs and diagrams. In an era in which everything can be charted technologically, Westerhuis questions the ways we perceive our body and our 'self'. She is interested in the borderlines and connections between the body and the machine. What are the similarities between man and computer? To what extent has our brain been pre-programmed? Is consciousness only a human trait? And why does this thought frighten people? Westerhuis introduces us to the question that is central in her work: what exactly defines the human? Two robotic hands nervously tap the glass of a showcase in an uncertain rhythm, as the sound ominously spreads throughout the space.


Shifting between the personal and the public, 'Sunlight Vandalism' transforms Xenofontos’s footage of contemporary ruins in Cyprus to computer-generated imagery. Reimagining the power structure of civic spaces, the work investigates a collective memory by using personal narratives within ideological breakdowns and folkloric romanticism. Her diagrammatic approach identifies layers of displaced and mutated symbols that create a poetic loop through a complex historical language. Xenofontos continues to weave materials and symbols through her egg tempera paintings – a response to the choreography of traditional belief systems. Sculpturally, in 'Syllogism', Xenofontos creates a series of reflective works in copper, iron, aluminium, and red-based pigments poured onto muslin fabric. Each work functions like a never-ending rehearsal of a play that examines the intertwined relationship between appearance and reality.

Shen’s film and installation work upholds a commitment towards both risk and comfort, where individuals and communities appear across different surfaces as units – and as shifting pronouns that exist within complex socio-political systems. To counter the formation of alternative power structures that can themselves be potentially oppressive, the protagonists are empowered to narrate, speak, and act out their desires, while maintaining the integrity to be inconsistent and discontinuous. Her work uncompromisingly and processually fabricates abstractions of inclusivity and foreignness, forming new ways to be known to others that reflect the complex representational agency of the image.
Shen’s practice is at once confronted with and guided by the synthetic presence of language, via the scripted and the informative.


An image of an everyday train ride unfolds slowly but clearly in front of our eyes. It becomes a journey to an autonomous universe – a depiction of our reality, created from the artist’s meticulous perception and intricate sensibilities. Dan Zhu offers the viewer an insight into her most inner and intimate understanding of the world. She draws inspiration from her early childhood, utilizing memories of carefree enjoyment to create and immerse us in her own imagination. In her works, Zhu explores the experience of time through different journeys of the mind, which grants her access to an unlimited amount of ideas, as the mind knows no limits, and holds infinite space.
 
With an affectionate eye for her surroundings, Zhu records her daily settings. The minute details of her reality inspire her works, which can be described as ambient studies of environment and emotions. These images are containers and structures that allow us to access her paranormal perception filled with characters, or 'beings', which include floating bubbles from a drink on the train, autumn leaves fraught with existential conflict, and a blue-faced moon. Her pieces are expressions of the inner stirrings of an astute and imaginative observer, representing a sensitivity to the tension between spirit and body, as well as her mental and physical relations to both time and space.